---
Title: "caff"


---

Caffeine is pretty nifty; it's a naturally occurring, accessible, and well-researched compound that has a bunch of productivity and health benefits when consumed intelligently. I've consumed my fair share of caffeine (with varying degrees of responsibility), and over time I've started what I think is a better way to think about caffeine. While some aspects of my caffeine habits are undoubtedly draconic, I feel that rigorous treatment of caffeine can be helpful for unlocking more of the benefits while reducing adverse effects.

### How I used to consume caffeine
I first started regularly consuming caffeine around 16, around halfway through high school. My caffeine source of choice used to be almost exclusively coffee; the accessibility, efficiency, and flavor made it the de facto choice at the time. I would usually drink a single cup upon waking, foregoing it entirely on weekends or when schoolwork was light. During this time I slept around 8-9 hours per night and never felt any sort of dependence on caffeine to function at regularly. I also never experienced adverse effects like anxiety, jitters, or nausea. As high school progressed my consumption became more regular, but I remained functional without it and still experienced no adverse effects.

When I got to college my caffeine consumption skyrocketed; I was consuming tea, coffee, and energy drinks at what seemed like all hours of the day. There was an amazing increase in things-to-do: classes, social events, campus exploration, etc. Adding a reduction of sleep, down to 6-7 hours a night, to the expanded opportunities, I was left with fewer working hours each day, along with a reduction of productivity owing to lack of sleep. So I, like many others, turned to the numerous coffee shops on campus (seriously, no spot on campus is more than 5 minutes away from coffee).

During this time I was drinking coffee to supplement a lack of sleep, which eventually translated into something of a caffeine dependence; I felt basically unable to perform regularly without daily caffeine, and often consumed coffee even when work was light. I typically had a cup of coffee or energy drink on my way to my morning classes, followed by a second prior to afternoon study sessions, and more if I had exams or had to study late. A direct result of this near constant consumption was a huge spike in tolerance; as coffee stopped having the same effect I moved to higher caffeine sources like energy drinks, almost all of which clocked in at over 200 mg of caffeine.

During this time I also started experiencing somewhat severe side-effects. I found my sleep cycle to be seriously disturbed: oftentimes I wouldn't be able to fall asleep at night, or would sleep incredibly poorly, leading to further increased caffeine usage. The most severe side-effect was anxiety. I don't usually suffer from test-taking anxiety, but after consuming upwards of 600 mg of caffeine in a day while preparing for an evening exam, it's remarkable I was even able to finish the exam; I felt a nauseating level of anxiety for 3 hours, to the point where I felt physically ill. Maybe there is a such thing as too much caffeine, who could have known?

I had never been concerned with the physical effects of caffeine; I was active, young, and healthy, making sure to eat well and remain hydrated. But the acute awareness of the physiological side-effects made me reconsider my consumption. So I went about looking for a 'healthier' (whether or not the current consumption pattern is actually any better is debatable) way to improve my performance.

### Research
With the aid of Google Scholar, I stumbled across an article directly addressing my issue. It set out a so-called green zone for caffeine, claiming that this was the range that lead to the most cognitive and physical benefits while reducing unnecessary adverse effects. Setting forth pharmacological behavior of caffeine for uptake and downtake, it provided a comprehensive system to measure and track caffeine concentration (I'll skip some details, check this out if you're interested).

The authors of this paper also made an app to capture the details; input amount of caffeine, time and duration of consumption, adjust a few settings here and there and viola, handy graph.

Now you can drink enough coffee or tea to get into the optimal zone and no more
